README.rst, before:

b2luigi
=======

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/b2luigi
           :target: https://b2luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/license/nils-braun/b2luigi
           :target: https://github.com/nils-braun/b2luigi/blob/main/LICENSE
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/nils-braun/b2luigi?logo=codecov
           :target: https://codecov.io/gh/nils-braun/b2luigi
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nils-braun/b2luigi/Test%20Default%20Branch?logo=github
           :target: https://github.com/nils-braun/b2luigi/actions
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/b2luigi?logo=pypi
           :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/b2luigi/

Disclaimer: Transferred maintainership ⚠️
-----------------------------------------------

As of December 2023 this repository is no longer be actively maintained.
``b2luigi`` is now maintained by the Belle II collaboration under
`gitlab.desy.de/belle2/software/b2luigi <https://gitlab.desy.de/belle2/software/b2luigi>`_
(internal) with a public mirror at
`github.com/belle2/b2luigi <https://github.com/belle2/b2luigi>`_.
If you are not a Belle II member and find issues or want to submit PR's,
please do so under the Belle II github mirror.
This repository will likely be archived soon.

Original README
-----------------

``b2luigi`` is a helper package constructed around ``luigi`` that helps you schedule working packages (so-called tasks)
locally or on a batch system.
Apart from the very powerful dependency management system by ``luigi``, ``b2luigi`` extends the user interface
and has a built-in support for the queue systems, e.g. LSF and HTCondor.

You can find more information in the `documentation <https://b2luigi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_.
Please note that most of the core features are handled by ``luigi``, which is described in the
separate `luigi documentation <https://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_,
where you can find a lot of useful information.

If you find any bugs or want to add a feature or improve the documentation, please send me a pull request!
Check the `development documentation <https://b2luigi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/advanced/development.html>`_
on information how to contribute.

Contributors are listed `here <https://b2luigi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html#the-team>`_.

This project is in still beta. Please be extra cautious when using in production mode.

To get notified about new features, (potentially breaking) changes, bugs and
their fixes, I recommend using the ``Watch`` button on github to get
notifications for new releases and/or issues or to subscribe the `releases feed
<https://github.com/nils-braun/b2luigi/releases.atom>`_ (requires no github
account, just a feed reader).

Commit message:

Link to new documentation of Belle II fork

README.rst, after:

b2luigi
=======

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/b2luigi
           :target: https://b2luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/license/nils-braun/b2luigi
           :target: https://github.com/nils-braun/b2luigi/blob/main/LICENSE
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/nils-braun/b2luigi?logo=codecov
           :target: https://codecov.io/gh/nils-braun/b2luigi
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nils-braun/b2luigi/Test%20Default%20Branch?logo=github
           :target: https://github.com/nils-braun/b2luigi/actions
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/b2luigi?logo=pypi
           :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/b2luigi/

Disclaimer: Transferred maintainership ⚠️
-----------------------------------------------

As of December 2023 this repository is no longer be actively maintained.
``b2luigi`` is now maintained by the Belle II collaboration under
`gitlab.desy.de/belle2/software/b2luigi <https://gitlab.desy.de/belle2/software/b2luigi>`_
(internal) with a public mirror at
`github.com/belle2/b2luigi <https://github.com/belle2/b2luigi>`_.
The new documentation is now at `b2luigi.belle2.org <https://b2luigi.belle2.org>`_.
If you are not a Belle II member and find issues or want to submit PR's,
please do so under the Belle II github mirror.
This repository will likely be archived soon.

Original README
-----------------

``b2luigi`` is a helper package constructed around ``luigi`` that helps you schedule working packages (so-called tasks)
locally or on a batch system.
Apart from the very powerful dependency management system by ``luigi``, ``b2luigi`` extends the user interface
and has a built-in support for the queue systems, e.g. LSF and HTCondor.

You can find more information in the `documentation <https://b2luigi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_.
Please note that most of the core features are handled by ``luigi``, which is described in the
separate `luigi documentation <https://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_,
where you can find a lot of useful information.

If you find any bugs or want to add a feature or improve the documentation, please send me a pull request!
Check the `development documentation <https://b2luigi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/advanced/development.html>`_
on information how to contribute.

Contributors are listed `here <https://b2luigi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html#the-team>`_.

This project is in still beta. Please be extra cautious when using in production mode.

To get notified about new features, (potentially breaking) changes, bugs and
their fixes, I recommend using the ``Watch`` button on github to get
notifications for new releases and/or issues or to subscribe the `releases feed
<https://github.com/nils-braun/b2luigi/releases.atom>`_ (requires no github
account, just a feed reader).
