docs/usage/installation.rst, before:

.. _installation-label:

Installation
============

This installation description is for the general user. If you are using the Belle II software, see below:

1.  Setup your local environment. 
    For example, run:

    .. code-block:: bash

        source venv/bin/activate

2.  Install b2luigi from pipy into your environment.

    a.  If you have a local installation, you can use the normal setup command

    .. code-block:: bash

        pip3 install b2luigi


    b.  If this fails because you do not have write access to where your virtual environment lives, you can also install
        b2luigi locally:

    .. code-block:: bash

        pip3 install --user b2luigi

    This will automatically also install `luigi` into your current environment.
    Please make sure to always setup your environment correctly before using `b2luigi`.

Now you can go on with the :ref:`quick-start-label`.


b2luigi and Belle II
---------------------

1.  Setup your local environment. You can use a local environment (installed on your machine) or a release on cvmfs.
    For example, run:

    .. code-block:: bash

        source /cvmfs/belle.cern.ch/tools/b2setup prerelease-02-00-00c

    Or you setup your local installation

    .. code-block:: bash

        cd release-directory
        source tools-directory/b2setup

2.  Install b2luigi from pipy into your environment.

    a.  If you have a local installation, you can use the normal setup command

    .. code-block:: bash

        pip3 install b2luigi


    b.  If you are using an installation from cvmfs, you need to add the ``user`` flag.

    .. code-block:: bash

        pip3 install --user b2luigi


The examples in this documentation are all shown with calling ``python``, but basf2 users need to use ``python3``
instead.

Please also have a look into the specific :ref:`basf2-examples-label`.

Commit message:

Feature/batch improvements (#20)
* Added a new function to get settings from a task or the settings file

* Simplify the file and folder structure

* Extract out the caching

* Use a new execution model using an executable wrapper

* Start using the new execution model in the batch systems

* Bugfix

* Continue with simplification of HTCondor

* Bugfixing

* More Bugfixing

* Make the history command faster

* Be less strict - especially usefull on abortion

* Make sure to always have at least one folder present

* htcondor submit needs to happen in the correct folder

* Switch the order

* Also check the return code of the condor job

* Add an example for htcondor

* Doc rework

* Remove outdated htcondor test (now an example)

* More documentation

* Bugfix

docs/usage/installation.rst, after:

.. _installation-label:

Installation
============

This installation description is for the general user. If you are using the Belle II software, see below:

1.  Setup your local environment. 
    For example, run:

    .. code-block:: bash

        source venv/bin/activate

2.  Install b2luigi from pipy into your environment.

    a.  If you have a local installation, you can use the normal setup command

    .. code-block:: bash

        pip3 install b2luigi


    b.  If this fails because you do not have write access to where your virtual environment lives, you can also install
        b2luigi locally:

    .. code-block:: bash

        pip3 install --user b2luigi

    This will automatically also install `luigi` into your current environment.
    Please make sure to always setup your environment correctly before using `b2luigi`.

Now you can go on with the :ref:`quick-start-label`.


b2luigi and Belle II
---------------------

Starting from release 04-00-00, `b2luigi` is already included in the externals. 
Follow this guid, if you want to update to the newest version nevertheless.

1.  Setup your local environment. You can use a local environment (installed on your machine) or a release on cvmfs.
    For example, run:

    .. code-block:: bash

        source /cvmfs/belle.cern.ch/tools/b2setup prerelease-02-00-00c

    Or you setup your local installation

    .. code-block:: bash

        cd release-directory
        source tools-directory/b2setup

2.  Install b2luigi from pipy into your environment.

    a.  If you have a local installation, you can use the normal setup command

    .. code-block:: bash

        pip3 install b2luigi -U


    b.  If you are using an installation from cvmfs, you need to add the ``user`` flag.

    .. code-block:: bash

        pip3 install --user b2luigi -U


The examples in this documentation are all shown with calling ``python``, but basf2 users need to use ``python3``
instead.

Please also have a look into the :ref:`basf2-example-label`.
